LokiBot-Malware characteristics.

LokiBot, which works on Android 4.0 and higher, has pretty standard malware capabilities, such as the well-known overlay attack all bankers have. It can also steal the victim’s contacts and read and send SMS messages. It has a specific command to spam all contacts with SMS messages as a means to spread the infection. The victim’s browser history isn’t safe either, as this can be uploaded to the C2. To top it off there is an option to lock the phone preventing the user from accessing it.

LokiBot also has some more unique features. For one it has the ability to start the victim’s browser app and open a given web page. Additionally, it implements SOCKS5, can automatically reply to SMS messages and it can start a user’s banking application. Combine this with the fact that LokiBot can show notifications which seem to come from other apps, containing for example a message that new funds have been deposited to the victim’s account and interesting phishing attack scenarios arise! The phishing notifications use the original icon of the application they try to impersonate. In addition, the phone is made to vibrate right before the notification is shown so the victim will take notice of it. When the notification is tapped it will trigger an overlay attack.

Another very interesting and unique feature of LokiBot is its ransomware capabilities. This ransomware triggers when you try to remove LokiBot from the infected device by revoking its administrative rights. It won’t go down without a fight and will encrypt all your files in the external storage as a last resort to steal money from you, as you need to pay Bitcoins to decrypt your files.

What’s also interesting to note is that the malware obfuscates its network traffic in the exact same way as we’ve seen in previously discovered Bankbot variants. This is probably also the reason why our great friend Nikolaos Chrysaidos (Head of Mobile Threats & Security at Avast) has reported very early stages of lokibot campaign as Bankbot.
